# ALX-Udacity-Dataset-investigation-Project-

# Table of Contents
## Introduction
## Data Wrangling
## Exploratory Data Analysis
## Conclusions

# Introduction
In this project, I will be analyzing data from The Movie Database (TMDb). This data set contains 10,866 rows and the following column attributes:

* movie_id - A unique identifier for each movie.
* imdb_id - A unique identifier for each movie on IMDB.
* cast - The name of lead and supporting actors.
* director - the director of the movie.
* budget - The budget in which the movie was made.
* genre - The genre of the movie, Action, Comedy ,Thriller etc.
* homepage - A link to the homepage of the movie.
* id - This is infact the movie_id as in the first dataset.
* keywords - The keywords or tags related to the movie.
* original_title - The title of the movie before translation or adaptation.
* overview - A brief description of the movie.
* popularity - A numeric quantity specifying the movie popularity.
* production_companies - The production house of the movie.
* production_countries - The country in which it was produced.
* release_date - The date on which it was released.
* revenue - The worldwide revenue generated by the movie.
* runtime - The running time of the movie in minutes.
* tagline - Movie's tagline.
* vote_average - average ratings the movie recieved.
* budget_adj - shows the budget associated movie in terms of 2010 dollars.
* revenue_adj - shows the revenue associated movie in terms of 2010 dollars.

### The project process is divided into three parts: Data Wrangling, Exploratory Data Analysis, and Conclusion.

# Questions
### This analysis will answer the following questions:
1. What genres are most popular from year to year?
2. What movies have the highest popularity and the lowest popularity?
3. What is the relationship between the budget of the movie and the revenue generated by the movie.

